foreign
[Music]
of accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease I'm Brett
Kistler here today with my co-host Joe
Hudson
all right welcome back thanks Fred oh my
goodness what a week it has been yeah on
a week well with launching the launching
the decision making course that was that
was a lot of work we put yeah I think I
think I did like 50 60 pieces of content
or something in three weeks
a lot of stuff
yeah yeah it's a lot seems like you've
been you've been going at it uh it's
pretty cool to see that it's launched
now I'm excited I just got into my first
uh
the First videos of content and I filled
out my my worksheet today on avoided
emotions and decisions that I'm in and
found it really helpful
awesome good good good yeah I can't wait
to get your feedback at the end of it
yeah yeah can't wait to have it
so we're doing we're doing another one
of our q a episodes today this is the
second time we've done this I think this
is going to become a new format that we
do more regularly I hope if we continue
to get great questions I'm going to
continue to bring these up and I really
enjoy it so awesome awesome awesome yeah
let's see how this one goes
all right so the first question that I
that I have this is this one comes from
Pavel and I love this question
I understand that to discover one's
triggers it's helpful to connect to
difficult people yet in one of the
episodes I hear you laughing already yet
in one of the episodes Joe mentioned
that he does not work with [__]
what is his personal definition of an
[__]
okay and don't [__] lose their power
over us after all our triggers all our
triggers are uncovered
oh wow that's a lot thank you okay
that's a good one off yeah he's good at
asking questions yeah so the first one
is it doesn't really matter what my
definition of an [__] is what matters
is your definition of an [__] and and
what you want to be around and what you
don't want to be around or what triggers
you and what doesn't trigger you
with that said my definition is somebody
who continually takes their emotions out
on me without
um
apology without recognition without
making amends and it happens all the
time
so that's that's the way I would Define
that uh is it helpful to be around
people who trigger us
yes it's helpful to for to be around
people who trigger us but in no way do I
suggest like going out and like finding
the people who trigger with you most and
then and then uh and then like being a
part of their friend group and then
hanging out with them or you know I'm
not suggesting that you go and find like
you know like the worst people in the
world
say okay I'm gonna go and I'm gonna go
commit Su uh commit murder so I can be
in prison with a whole bunch of people
to trigger me yeah that's I don't think
that's any path to Freedom you might
even say that it's common that we end up
finding ourselves attracted to the
people that trigger us and that we like
sort of in a golden algorithm Way by
avoiding certain feelings we do end up
finding ourselves in
you know in situations where we are
surrounded with people that we have
trigger with that's right yeah
especially in people we're married to or
people that you know who are close to
especially family members and so
so there's this reality that they are so
I wouldn't say go find a whole bunch of
people trigger you and hang out what I
would say is you'll be triggered Enough
by the people that you love and that's
the that's the place to start
that's that attraction is a way to know
the best place to find those folks the
second part is
shouldn't shouldn't it be okay to hang
out with [__] if you're you know if
you're beyond that because of you know
you're never triggered so I don't know
anybody who's never triggered so I I
assume that there might be some sort of
place where that exists but I haven't I
haven't ever experienced it
uh what I have noticed is that
triggering does go away but part of the
way that it goes away
and diminishes over time is that
we love that part of ourselves that's
one way the other way is that we uh no
longer think that we have to accept them
something so typically
um I'll give you an example of this I
was working with a client the other day
and
and she told me oh I don't really want
to address this boundary and the
boundary was about someone handing off
fear a business partner handing off fear
to her
and I said it's not about the other
person it's about you and
two things I can tell you one is you
somehow think it's okay for someone to
hand fear off to you and when you don't
it'll stop or at least become a lot less
and the second
is that it's this is not the only place
it is in your life so we first explored
all the other places it was in her life
and then
we went to how to draw that boundary in
a way because the boundary that you're
drawing
of say not being around [__] is for
you it's saying oh I don't have to I
don't need to do this to be loved I
don't need this to to be complete and
that's part of how we don't get
triggered
knowing that we don't have to be there
and accept this
and then when we are there or we do have
to be there and accept it because we
have another choice that we're making or
there's something more important is a
lot less triggering because we know we
don't have to so the other way to say
this is it's very hard to love and not
be triggered by something that you think
can dominate you
and unless you know you can leave unless
you know that you can draw the boundary
then you will feel dominated and then
you'll be triggered so learning to leave
is a huge part of how to not be
triggered by folks and then the last
piece the last piece I would say is
uh this idea
of being around someone who triggers you
all the time uh
in no way are we like I said at all
saying go hang out with a whole bunch of
people who trigger you
but I would say
more specifically if somebody can lift
500 pounds it doesn't mean that they go
and lift 500 pounds all the time or if
someone can walk on glass it doesn't
mean they go walk on glass all the time
that's there's no point in that it
there's a enjoyableness to life which is
really critical and I think one of the
hardest things for us to accept is that
our life can be enjoyable and peaceful
that's actually the harder thing so if
you really want to work on a trigger
work on that one work on how being in
joy and peace for an extended period of
time
like activates a [__] ton of fear in you
that's a much better way to spend your
time than finding a whole bunch of ways
to be at disease
yeah something that I that came up from
me in the the last question the phrasing
of don't [__] lose their power over
us that's interesting to me because
there's this there's the perception that
they have power over you which points to
sort of like in in the perceptual Hall
of Mirrors
what would make me think someone is an
[__] it's generally the fact that I
feel like they have some kind of power
over me or there's a power Dynamic going
on between us and if I actually take
care of myself and get to the root of
what is actually not okay for me in that
situation I draw the boundary then
suddenly they're not an [__] anymore
in my world what they are is somebody
who is
exhibiting certain behaviors and
characteristics that can come from
trauma that I've never seen that I just
don't know there's just then the Wonder
opens up I just don't understand
this person and I can be curious about
it and be curious from a distance of
myself feeling safe so it's it's almost
as though
the like the existence of [__] in my
environment the existence of me
perceiving [__] is the pointer to
where I'm judging into the pointer a
pointer to where I don't feel safe and
to where I feel like there's there's a
power Dynamic that I'm buying into
and as I as I do the work on that myself
then then it it can fall away
and
then I find myself engaged with people
that I want to be engaged with in my
life and also
with an open heart and not judging those
who I don't want to have in my life for
whatever reason
exactly yeah
yeah the other the other way to think
about this which I think you're alluding
to really well here is
that you get a life that you want to
have
that that the whole idea to some degree
of the spiritual journey and to go hang
out with a whole bunch of people will
trigger you that whole idea is so that
you can have the life that you want to
have shortcut just have the life that
you want to have and then what triggers
happen deal with them
yeah
awesome well thank you Pavel for that
question yeah man thank you a great
question as always
yeah
all right our next one is from Simone
Simone says my work contract recently
ended leaving me with an unexpected
Peace of Mind sort of a what next
or what now she said she asks am I
delusional why and how can I feel this
way with so little money coming in why
am I okay what's the difference between
letting go and doing nothing
yeah so yes uh
the thing that I'm noticing in the
question itself is the questioning of an
emotional state as if emotional states
should or could be rational
and and what's really beautiful about
this one Simone is that usually people
question the uncomfortable emotional
states and they don't notice that
they're questioning the positive ones
and so it's really cool that you're you
you recognize this positive one and
you're like wait wait is this okay and
so noticed
what the mind is constantly doing the
mind is constantly trying to manage see
if it's okay to have whatever emotional
state that we're having
rather than feeling it or enjoying it
thoroughly and when I say enjoying it I
mean enjoying anger or sadness or
in this case peace
so that's the first thing that I notice
in it uh the question is it okay well
it's happening so
[Laughter]
it's okay that's that's how emotions
work to think that an emotion that's
happening is not okay
I think the other underlying question
that you're asking here is
um is this dangerous right if I feel
good not having enough money will I go
and be poor and be homeless or you know
that some version of that is what the
mind is trying to convince you of
and I would say
rather than that notice that every time
you feel good and at peace the Mind
shows up with some anxiety because it's
actually the feeling of peace and joy
that is incredibly difficult to feel and
to fully allow in just like for some
people Compliments are really hard to
let in and so the work is to allow and
feel those emotions completely
um and the mind is going to tell you
with every emotion
you know it's not safe so if I'm angry
then I'm scared that I'll destroy
everything if I'm sad I'm scared I'll do
it forever if I feel good I'm scared
I'll lose my ambition or I'll lose my
drive
uh
my experience and psychology tells us
that if we are in uh
constriction fear if we are
not at peace that our capacity to learn
our capacity to grow is deeply
influenced in a negative way
so there's no real psychological
evidence that says positive thinking is
is bad for your being at peace is it
like in inhibits your decision making or
your drive or Your Capacity however it
is a something our mind tells us all the
time
so that that's the first the first part
of it there's a second question in there
but go ahead and say what you want to
say Brett and then we'll go to the
second part of the question
yeah I was going to say I think we we
commonly pattern match to if we're
feeling if we're feeling a positive
peaceful state that this must mean that
we're actually avoiding or dissociating
from some deeper reality I love kind of
the way that brene brown talks about
this as foreboding Joy she describes a
situation where like okay close your
eyes and picture you're in a car and
you're driving it's just beautiful
you're in the passenger seat your lovers
in the driver's seat it's just such a
beautiful day and as you're coming
around the corner you two look at each
other and you lock eyes and then the car
continues around the corner what happens
next
and like
whether this is from watching so many
movies or just from life experience or
stories we have this pattern match of up
something's got to go wrong right
because this is just too nice right
there's also this weird neurological
pattern we're more likely to pick up
what goes wrong than we are to pick up
what goes right and so when anything is
going right something will go wrong
eventually and so we notice that but the
same is true said the other way whenever
things are going wrong it will go right
eventually but we're not ever worried or
thinking about that in fact we're doing
the opposite oh the good part will never
come again
and
from a distance you can absolutely tell
good follows bad Falls good follows bad
or comfortable follows uncomfortable
follows comfortable follows
uncomfortable
you can absolutely see it and we have
this mental illusion it's like a a
visual illusion a mental illusion that
we have is as oh my God because it's
good something bad is going to happen
and if it's bad we're not like oh don't
worry something Good's gonna happen soon
it's an amazing it's an amazing
neurological illusion that we have
so what she had a second part of that
question what were the last couple
sentences yeah
yeah the second the second part was
what's the difference between letting go
and doing nothing I would say that
letting go is
it depends on how you define it
obviously the way I Define it is letting
go is not managing my experience
doing nothing is literally doing nothing
which I don't really see any humans do
like is is they're sleeping and if
they're not sleeping they're doing
something they're thinking or they're
contemplating or they're daydreaming or
they're
avoiding or humans do stuff so or
they're resting in the peacefulness
until until another
exactly so doing nothing I think isn't
an is an embossibility whereas letting
go or Surrender is the non-management of
your experience
hmm
all right well thank you Sam good good
question
okay uh and here is another question
this one's from Kayla
as purveyors of ideas how do Joe and
Brett benefit by positioning themselves
as all-time Fitness I.E Messiah level
Solutions experts what kind of
experiences are outside of Joan Brett's
reach how do their experiential
limitations affect the ideas they are
selling
I'm really glad that we that that
somebody said this right in uh wait so
do do them one by one for me just yeah
yeah
so as as purveyors of ideas how do Joe
and Brett benefit by positioning
themselves as all-time fixers or Messiah
level Solutions okay so uh the first
part is that I don't want to fix anybody
and I don't want to be a fixer and I
definitely don't want to be a messiah so
so that that's the first part so but how
I benefit that's a great question I
would say there's some benefits and
there's some costs there's benefits to
being in the position which I don't want
to deny of the person answering
questions that people are asking and uh
the the benefit is that
um
you know people show up and have
experiences with me that I I find deep
and meaningful also I think it it as
sells courses and and people are are
interested in participating and getting
to know us so being in that position I
think does does all that good stuff in
the world and for me
the the cost is separation
the cost is that a lot of people project
a lot of [__] on me that
um some is good some is bad but it's all
not me it's you know some of it's like
oh he's so great and some of it's like
what an [__]
and
um but all of that is separation none of
that is actually the intimacy that makes
life meaningful to me so to some degree
the cost is
as as separation which is something that
I've always
it's always been like a very known cost
and it's always it always creates some
morning and sadness in me the other cost
that I see that's
um I noticed that a lot of people who
are in the position of teacher in this
case
um they get stuck where they are they
like their development stops continuing
and so that's another cost is that
to constantly understand that you don't
know crap that you are speaking from
your experience and and hopefully that's
something that you're saying is
benefiting somebody else
is where it's at it's not thinking that
you actually know anything that you that
you don't buy or believe your own
philosophy that instead you're
constantly in Wonder and question about
your own thoughts and experiences
yeah I'd speak I'd speak from my
experience as part of part of my journey
in doing this podcast has been grappling
with this question you know like
who is it like who am I to be able to
speak about these things you know Joe is
somebody who's been facilitating this
stuff for years and I've been learning
it and it's been interesting for me to
go through the process of allowing
myself to be seen as a fallible human
who can say things off the cuff that
might or might not have impact in
positive ways or people can make make it
mean all kinds of things that I may or
may not ever know about so that's one of
the things that it is to be human
um
and I do benefit there's there's a
benefit to being on this podcast with
you there's there's a benefit to having
people recognize me by my voice and on
the street that's
I like it and it's also
it's also a little scary too you know in
these in these times especially it can
be kind of scary to be
to be known or seen and I definitely
don't want to be you know a messiah
level Solutions expert I don't see
myself that way but I do know that
sometimes I might feel like I like that
yeah it does feel good to feel like I
have the answer and that's part of part
of what I'm doing this work to
to kind of dissolve and see through like
what would what in me would have me want
to be the person who has the answers
and how can I show up more more
authentically as the person who's just
in Wonder knowing that I only have one
perspective yeah
and
and also put myself in a position where
I can access many many perspectives from
many other people and learn as much as I
can in in this life and enjoy it that
what you're stating there is really
important to me as well which is that I
I every perspective has its limitations
and has its truth mine is no different
so and and I hear everybody's including
the person who's asking this question
that their perspective has limitation
and has truth
so
yeah like the the idea that what we're
if if you're listening to this and you
think that what we're saying is right
please stop
all I want is for you to trust your own
experience
and to and do the the deepest wisdom is
in you it's not outside of you
if if what I say helps you point helps
helps you find something great and if it
doesn't
then then just ignore it
yeah yeah
and speaking to the next piece there the
what kind of experiences are outside of
Joe and Brett's reach I'd say all kinds
of experiences I would say your
experience we have all kinds of
experiential limitations that affect the
ideas we talk about or sell yeah I mean
for the questioner it's your experience
I have I don't know what your experience
is I have no idea I don't know what
anybody else's experience is
and I can't speak to them and I and I
and I and what I want is for you to
speak from them
like I would far rather hear how people
are than to tell them how they are I
don't have no interest in that
yeah
yeah and
you know as as this being as this work
being a
sort of there's like a framework and
there's a process to it and there's
iteration and experimentation
you know it might be it is the case that
this work works really well for some
people and not as well as at least as a
starting point for many others and I I
would love to see
as more people find their way into this
to like allow us to learn how we do what
we do in a way that is more and more
inclusive and more and more
and and can meet more people where they
are I and yeah work for a varying like a
wider range of perspectives I I agreed
with everything you said at the
beginning
as far as like this isn't for everybody
and
and like if there's no trust then it's
not for you if there's no resonance then
it's not for you if you know and it may
be for you in the future it may never be
and that's all great
I'm not sure if I want it to be all
inclusive as far as
what I want is for it to be meaning that
like I don't want to make it so that I
don't want to change what I'm doing so
that it it's good for everybody I do
want to learn from other perspectives
[Music]
um
what I what I want is for it to be the
deepest and truest expression of what
what is called through me
what I'm here to do
and hopefully that allows access for
lots of people but I don't want to
that's not my goal isn't so that
everybody can learn from this I don't
I don't want that what I want is for it
to be a true and authentic expression
and for it to be respectful and loving
and empowering
for everybody
yeah I love that and and the pushback
I'd have is it also just tends to be
that people who are in their truest
authentic Expressions tend to
tend to resonate with a lot of people
yeah let's find out so it might be that
both of those end up serving each other
but I I yeah I also agree it's not it's
not about it's not about changing what
we're doing to be
to like fit the widest Market
yeah yeah I I think the truth is I don't
want anybody else to change for me
um I don't want you to change for me so
I I and and in that recognition I don't
want to change for someone else what I
want is to be my full expression
authentically yeah I love that
distinction
yeah and that's also what I want for for
everybody else
that's what I hope people get out of
this work
yeah me too was there a third part of
the question was that it uh yeah I love
the questions
the third part was how do their
experiential limitations affect the
ideas they're selling
it is yeah well I what I I notice in
that one is that I don't I want to say
I'm not selling any ideas I'm like
actually I am I literally there's a
course and and and though it's not ideas
that we're selling it's
it's experiences and iteration and
experimentation there is like it would
be disingenuous to say that there's not
ideas wrapped up in that
um so what I noticed in myself in this
one is
just that re that resistance to oh
there's no idea that I'm selling there's
the resistance in that for me is is the
idea that I'm trying to convince
somebody so
again if you feel convinced
or if you feel like I want you to be
convinced then I would I would urge you
to move away from me and the podcast
um
I I again very much the the main push of
and me to do what I do is is
poor people to experience their own
truth and their own wisdom hopefully I
can point to things that were roadblocks
and me discoveries that I had that
helped them on that Journey
and if I can't then or if you don't
trust that then
or if you feel like I'm trying to get
you to be something then I would deeply
encourage you to not listen to me
awesome thank you Kayla for that
question
I really really enjoyed it
yeah
this one comes from Bryce and Bryce asks
I find I have trouble calling up emotion
that isn't being authentically felt what
are your best ways to call up emotions
you know are there but often come in
opportune times for example in the
middle of work public places
Etc this has happened several times
where I know it's something deep and
wanting to express and be felt but the
timing didn't work and later I've tried
to go back and call it up and feel it
and
so don't worry Bryce it'll come back if
you if it hasn't been fully felt and
welcomed you'll you'll get it again
don't worry
uh so there's no rush to
self-development whatever you don't love
and address will will show up again
um
uh so that's part of it I think the
other part of it is that what I notice
is that emotions that are
like are sometimes the trickiest
they only want to have conversations
with you when you're at a restaurant
like you know the you see this happening
with couples all the time where the
couples will bring up the subject in a
restaurant so that they can't have a
fight or they'll bring up the subject in
the uh like in a play or in a car so
that they have to it they can't get out
of the car it has to be addressed and so
emotions do the same thing they have
like and so if if there's not a fuel
full feeling of safety with that emotion
it usually shows up
so that's one thing second thing is that
if you're trying to generate the
emotional experience
that often prevents the emotional
experience
um so if you're if you're trying to call
it back up
the the best way to do that typically is
to hold the memory in your body and in
your mind of the time that you felt that
most completely and and then see where
it goes from there you will not get the
full
complete triggered experience and that's
good because then you get to First work
with and be exposed to a a lesser
version of that experience and that
works just fine so and if it doesn't
come up and you're trying to get it to
come up Let it go it's all right
oftentimes like I said when we try we're
pushing the emotions away and so there's
a whole you know group of people that
have the tendency to
you know uh push
the emotions Away by trying
and and you'll see that like in the
emotional inquiry work where the job is
to be in Wonder and curiosity about some
emotional experience and they'll try so
hard and everything goes away so that's
that's also part of it
yeah I'll leave that one with your
answer
that was good
the next one I'm Gonna Leave the leave
the questioner's name Anonymous just
because of the nature of this question
right
uh sometimes I feel uncared for and
unloved by my partner even though I'm
pretty sure this is not the case
she struggles with showing affection how
do I make peace with this situation
without trying to change her
hmm
yeah wow that's a great question
I have a weird weird thing I want to say
right off the bat is I've noticed that
people who have that very hard time
showing that affection are often
incredibly loyal
as as odd as that sounds but there's
often have a pronounced sense of loyalty
when they have that hard time showing
the expression so that there's a benefit
there
um
so
I want to make a a difference I want to
I want to create a distinction between
accepting her just as she is
and asking for what you want or getting
the life that you want
and it feels like those two are
convoluted in your question
it seems like the
the question
is assuming that you're either going to
get what you want or you're going to
accept her and I don't want to I don't
want to agree with that dichotomy
in my answer yeah making peace with the
situation is not always right the path
to our yeah
Freedom exactly so
and you can be completely at peace with
it and not be in a relationship with her
it and ask for what you want so I think
there's two things the first one is how
do you ask for what you want and the
second one is how do you make peace with
it and they're not separate
so
what
I would do is I would have a view
conversation with her about what makes
it challenging to show affection and I
would be very vulnerable about how it
makes me feel and what I want and I'd be
vulnerable about
my childhood patterns that made it so
that I thought it was acceptable not to
have that level of affection and
nurturing that I crave
and so I would be very vulnerable about
my situation around it and and what has
created it and what I want
and I would also say in that
conversation how much
I loved and appreciated her
and how I don't want her to feel like
she has to be different for me
so all of that would be said and then I
would ask her how she wants to be with
that what like what feels right and what
doesn't feel right and if she's very
clear like hey I'm happy to love you but
I'm
completely unwilling to be affectionate
towards you then you have a choice to
make and it's yours it has nothing to do
with her
and and so then I would be making that
choice and and seeing what felt right
most likely she'll
do something different show
most likely say
oh okay so I this is my experience
hopefully she'll say this is my
experience this is what scares me and
then you can support and nurture each
other in the healing of both of your
patterns and then life is great
even though it may be complicated and
and fraught with
and probably some difficult moments but
you're in a committed relation a really
truly committed relationship there where
you're committing to being supportive of
one another as you are
if she is yeah and so that's great and
and if she's unwilling to do it then you
just have a choice to make
so that's that's the way I would say it
yeah yeah another thing that would come
up from that kind of a conversation is
that you can check for your assumptions
as well that there's you know in in the
question there's sometimes I feel
uncared for and unloved by my partner
and to what extent is it that I tend to
feel uncared for and unloved
um she struggles with showing affection
how true is that what are what are some
ways she might be showing affection that
I'm not recognizing
and you know ways that I'm looking for
affection that just pattern matched my
childhood it didn't actually match this
relationship so there could be something
that comes up there and in that
conversation she can say actually I feel
like I'm showing affection in in these
ways for me it's
you know taking care of
things around the house and making sure
that the things are beautiful and nice
it's also
you know making sure that you have time
to do your work there's ways that I show
affection that might not be showing up
and like yeah cuddling with you but I
hear now that you want cuddles you know
then we can have that conversation yes
that's that yeah very true and also
there's a
there's something else in there which is
the being at peace with part so the
being at peace with Bart means that
you're not actually wanting her to
change so
and and you're not calling her bad or
incapable or incompetent because she's
not doing the thing that you want to do
so yeah the view conversation at at the
beginning is all about being in Wonder
and questioning your assumptions and
and the only way you really get that is
to
see her as full and complete as she is
not
wrong or absent or something like that
and and so that might require
having like allowing your emotions like
allowing the grief that you're not
getting the affection that you want it
might be allowing the anger that you're
not getting the affection you want so
that you can come into the conversation
seeing her as whole and good
hmm
yeah awesome yeah that feels like a good
closure for that answer I've got one
more this one's more somatic
this one comes from Johnny
he says let's say there's a sense of
contraction or gunk in the pelvis that
you're not yet able to fully access or
feel let's say Johnny let's say let's
say that's the case let's say let's say
hypothetically
and so Johnny asks what might be some
other somatic modalities or support that
might assist uh yeah so I'm gonna
question your assumption there the
assumption is that you can't move
through it all the way
um so I want to start there and then we
can talk about modalities
um if you know if you are aware of it my
experience is if you're aware of it you
can move through it all the way
what usually stops us from being able to
move through it all the way is the fact
that we're trying to move through it all
the way instead of be with it and love
it and let it move the way that it wants
to move
so we have an agenda for it we're trying
to manage it we're not in view with it
and therefore
it's it resists and it Rebels and it's
like [__] you so so instead what is it
to just be with that sensation all day
with love and attention
and just continue to be with it and not
ask it to change and not not ask it to
be different
so that would be my first noticing in
the question as far as other modalities
uh breath work and dance
breath work is amazing lots of forms of
breath work but in this particular case
I would be doing a lot of deep breath
into the that part of the belly
that would be a tremendous usually a
tremendous asset uh dance especially in
that part of the body I find dance has a
lot to do with it but most of the time
what I notice is that people see the
stagnation as a problem they treat it
like a problem which increases the
stagnation
instead of seeing it as a wisdom instead
of trusting the stagnation
and so that's the main that's the main
pointer I would have for you Johnny
yeah awesome I don't have a whole lot to
add to that I would like to fit in one
final one let's do it
uh this is from this is from lore
so they said I'm wondering how necessary
the visual eye contact part of you is
like if you were blind could you not do
the connection work
yeah yeah yeah of course yeah beautiful
Edge case there yeah uh
so there's a part of the question like
how much of this is that eye contact
makes you lore feel uncomfortable and
you're looking for a way around it I
don't know you so I can't really speak
to that
uh what the eye contact is all about is
raising the oxytocin in your system so
that it's easier for you to find the
place of view it is it is just a
like a training tool it's like bumpers
on a on a on a bowling alley it keeps
you in the lanes more easily
so that's what it is you could use
holding hands you could use having a
conversation while hugging or just
touching each other
you could have gratitude for each other
before you start the conversation and
all of those things will help you
more naturally until you
start to have a somatic memory of the ex
of a view of being in vulnerable
impartial in empathy and in wonder
so it's just it's just a way to do it
it's also for most people who get used
to it it becomes incredibly enjoyable as
well
so so that's what I would say and uh and
I want to acknowledge that there is
definitely some folks that
neurologically are atypical and I I
don't know I don't understand completely
or have full knowledge of how
some neurological atypicalness will
affect eye contact and the experience of
that for somebody in in the body
um I think there's some folks with you
know who are more on the autistic
spectrum and there are some folks who
are heavily
um in in ADHD where it can have
different experiences but I haven't
really been able to find a lot of
research on it so I don't particularly
know or understand those things
what's important is if you don't have if
eye contact is not possible for you
then find something that allows you to
have that deep sense of connection that
is not intellectual
that is somatic and or physical
emotional nervous system
pleasure something that allows you to to
have that sense since the the important
part is that this is not just an
intellectual thing and
when I notice some folks are avoiding
the eye contact what they're actually
doing is avoiding the felt sense in
their body because it's too overwhelming
and so instead just gently go into the
body a little bit just gently go into
the body a little bit and like give
yourself time and space it's all you
know it's good just whatever it does
whatever you need to do go at the speed
that allows it to be pleasurable for you
well it does seem to be the case is that
all of us I haven't really
met anybody who doesn't want to connect
there are folks who
connection is intense and so they don't
want to do it as much and there are foot
but I haven't really met anybody who
doesn't want to feel seen who doesn't
want to feel understood
it doesn't want to feel heard
I've never that person I haven't met and
so that tells me that in in the inherent
there's an inherent
um space in all of us that accesses View
wants to access View
yeah yeah everybody wants to be seen and
heard and for some that might be felt
and heard that might be yeah seen and
felt yeah exactly
yeah yeah
awesome well that's all we've got time
for May everybody listening feel seen
and heard and well loved
and felt yeah
yeah yeah right oh yeah the scene thing
ah
oh my goodness all right a pleasure
all right all right thank you Joe thank
you everybody that submitted your
questions yeah thank you for doing this
again thanks for the great questions
everyone
thank you everybody for listening if you
know someone who might appreciate this
episode please pass it along and share
what resonated for you we love your
feedback so hit us with comments or
questions through our website Circle
Community or tweet us at Art of a comp
you can reach out join our newsletter or
check out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
[Music]
foreign